## install

```
https://rustup.rs/

curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
```


## Hello world

```rust
fn main() {
    println!("Hello, world!");
}
```

```
rustc main.rs
```

## Cargo

- We can create a project using `cargo new`.
- We can build a project using `cargo build`.
- We can build and run a project in one step using `cargo run`.
- We can build a project without producing a binary to check for errors using `cargo check`.
- Instead of saving the result of the build in the same directory as our code, Cargo stores it in the _target/debug_ directory.

### Building for release

When your project is finally ready for release, you can use `cargo build --release` to compile it with optimizations. This command will create an executable in _target/release_ instead of _target/debug_.

## Guessing game

```rust
use std::io;

let mut guess = String::new();

let apples = 5; // immutable
let mut bananas = 5; // mutable
```

```rust
io::stdin()
        .read_line(&mut guess)
```
If we hadn’t imported the `io` library with `use std::io;` at the beginning of the program, we could still use the function by writing this function call as `std::io::stdin`.

For now, all you need to know is that, like variables, references are immutable by default. Hence, you need to write `&mut guess` rather than `&guess` to make it mutable.

As mentioned earlier, `read_line` puts whatever the user enters into the string we pass to it, but it also returns a `Result` value. [`Result`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/result/enum.Result.html) is an [_enumeration_](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch06-00-enums.html)

Values of the `Result` type, like values of any type, have methods defined on them. An instance of `Result` has an [`expect` method](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/result/enum.Result.html#method.expect) that you can call. If this instance of `Result` is an `Err` value, `expect` will cause the program to crash and display the message that you passed as an argument to `expect`.

```rust
let x = 5;
let y = 10;

println!("x = {x} and y + 2 = {}", y + 2);
```

When printing the value of a variable, the variable name can go inside the curly brackets. When printing the result of evaluating an expression, place empty curly brackets in the format string, then follow the format string with a comma-separated list of expressions to print in each empty curly bracket placeholder in the same order.

### Ensuring Reproducible Builds with the Cargo.lock File

Cargo has a mechanism that ensures you can rebuild the same artifact every time you or anyone else builds your code

### Shadowing

```rust
let mut guess = String::new();

io::stdin().read_line(&mut guess).expect("Failed to read line");

let guess : u32 = guess.trim().parse().expect("Please type a number!");

```

We create a variable named `guess`. But wait, doesn’t the program already have a variable named `guess`? It does, but helpfully Rust allows us to shadow the previous value of `guess` with a new one.

The [`parse` method on strings](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/primitive.str.html#method.parse) converts a string to another type. Here, we use it to convert from a string to a number. We need to tell Rust the exact number type we want by using `let guess: u32`.


---

```rust
use rand::Rng;
use std::cmp::Ordering;
use std::io;

fn main() {
    println!("Guess the number!");

    let secret_number = rand::thread_rng().gen_range(1..=100);

    loop {
        println!("Please input your guess.");

        let mut guess = String::new();

        io::stdin()
            .read_line(&mut guess)
            .expect("Failed to read line");

        let guess: u32 = match guess.trim().parse() {
            Ok(num) => num,
            Err(_) => continue,
        };

        println!("You guessed: {guess}");

        match guess.cmp(&secret_number) {
            Ordering::Less => println!("Too small!"),
            Ordering::Greater => println!("Too big!"),
            Ordering::Equal => {
                println!("You win!");
                break;
            }
        }
    }
}
```

The underscore, `_`, is a catchall value; in this example, we’re saying we want to match all `Err` values, no matter what information they have inside them.