
## Generic Data Types

We use generics to create definitions for items like function signatures or structs, which we can then use with many different concrete data types.

```rust
fn largest<T>(list: &[T]) -> &T 
```

We read this definition as: the function `largest` is generic over some type `T`. This function has one parameter named `list`, which is a slice of values of type `T`. The `largest` function will return a reference to a value of the same type `T`.

```rust
fn largest<T: std::cmp::PartialOrd>(list: &[T]) -> &T {
    let mut largest = &list[0];

    for item in list {
        if item > largest {
            largest = item;
        }
    }

    largest
}

fn main() {
    let number_list = vec![34, 50, 25, 100, 65];

    let result = largest(&number_list);
    println!("The largest number is {}", result);

    let char_list = vec!['y', 'm', 'a', 'q'];

    let result = largest(&char_list);
    println!("The largest char is {}", result);
}
```

The help text mentions `std::cmp::PartialOrd`, which is a _trait_, and we’re going to talk about traits in the next section. For now, know that this error states that the body of `largest` won’t work for all possible types that `T` could be. Because we want to compare values of type `T` in the body, we can only use types whose values can be ordered. To enable comparisons, the standard library has the `std::cmp::PartialOrd` trait that you can implement on types

#### In Struct Definitions

```rust
struct Point<T, U> {
    x: T,
    y: U,
}

fn main() {
    let both_integer = Point { x: 5, y: 10 };
    let both_float = Point { x: 1.0, y: 4.0 };
    let integer_and_float = Point { x: 5, y: 4.0 };
}
```

#### In Enum Definitions

```rust
enum Option<T> {
    Some(T),
    None,
}
```

#### In Method Definitions

```rust
struct Point<T> {
    x: T,
    y: T,
}

impl<T> Point<T> {
    fn x(&self) -> &T {
        &self.x
    }
}

fn main() {
    let p = Point { x: 5, y: 10 };

    println!("p.x = {}", p.x());
}
```

We can also specify constraints on generic types when defining methods on the type. We could, for example, implement methods only on `Point<f32>` instances rather than on `Point<T>` instances with any generic type.

```rust
impl Point<f32> {
    fn distance_from_origin(&self) -> f32 {
        (self.x.powi(2) + self.y.powi(2)).sqrt()
    }
}
```

mixup method

```rust
struct Point<X1, Y1> {
    x: X1,
    y: Y1,
}

impl<X1, Y1> Point<X1, Y1> {
    fn mixup<X2, Y2>(self, other: Point<X2, Y2>) -> Point<X1, Y2> {
        Point {
            x: self.x,
            y: other.y,
        }
    }
}

fn main() {
    let p1 = Point { x: 5, y: 10.4 };
    let p2 = Point { x: "Hello", y: 'c' };

    let p3 = p1.mixup(p2);

    println!("p3.x = {}, p3.y = {}", p3.x, p3.y);
}
```


#### Performance of Code Using Generics

You might be wondering whether there is a runtime cost when using generic type parameters. The good news is that using generic types won't make your program run any slower than it would with concrete types.

Rust accomplishes this by performing monomorphization of the code using generics at compile time. _Monomorphization_ is the process of turning generic code into specific code by filling in the concrete types that are used when compiled. In this process, the compiler does the opposite of the steps we used to create the generic function in Listing 10-5: the compiler looks at all the places where generic code is called and generates code for the concrete types the generic code is called with.


## Traits: Defining Shared Behavior

A _trait_ defines functionality a particular type has and can share with other types. We can use traits to define shared behavior in an abstract way.

Note: Traits are similar to a feature often called _interfaces_ in other languages, although with some differences.

```rust
pub trait Summary {
    fn summarize(&self) -> String;
}
```

After the method signature, instead of providing an implementation within curly brackets, we use a semicolon. Each type implementing this trait must provide its own custom behavior for the body of the method. The compiler will enforce that any type that has the `Summary` trait will have the method `summarize` defined with this signature exactly.


#### Implementing a Trait on a Type

```rust
pub struct NewsArticle {
    pub headline: String,
    pub location: String,
    pub author: String,
    pub content: String,
}

impl Summary for NewsArticle {
    fn summarize(&self) -> String {
        format!("{}, by {} ({})", self.headline, self.author, self.location)
    }
}

pub struct Tweet {
    pub username: String,
    pub content: String,
    pub reply: bool,
    pub retweet: bool,
}

impl Summary for Tweet {
    fn summarize(&self) -> String {
        format!("{}: {}", self.username, self.content)
    }
}
```

Now that the library has implemented the `Summary` trait on `NewsArticle` and `Tweet`, users of the crate can call the trait methods on instances of `NewsArticle` and `Tweet` in the same way we call regular methods. The only difference is that the user must bring the trait into scope as well as the types. Here’s an example of how a binary crate could use our `aggregator` library crate:

```rust
use aggregator::{Summary, Tweet};

fn main() {
    let tweet = Tweet {
        username: String::from("horse_ebooks"),
        content: String::from(
            "of course, as you probably already know, people",
        ),
        reply: false,
        retweet: false,
    };

    println!("1 new tweet: {}", tweet.summarize());
}
```

Other crates that depend on the `aggregator` crate can also bring the `Summary` trait into scope to implement `Summary` on their own types. One restriction to note is that we can implement a trait on a type only if at least one of the trait or the type is local to our crate. For example, we can implement standard library traits like `Display` on a custom type like `Tweet` as part of our `aggregator` crate functionality, because the type `Tweet` is local to our `aggregator` crate. We can also implement `Summary` on `Vec<T>` in our `aggregator` crate, because the trait `Summary` is local to our `aggregator` crate.


But we can’t implement external traits on external types
This rule ensures that other people’s code can’t break your code and vice versa. Without the rule, two crates could implement the same trait for the same type, and Rust wouldn’t know which implementation to use.

#### Default Implementations

Sometimes it’s useful to have default behavior for some or all of the methods in a trait instead of requiring implementations for all methods on every type.

```rust
pub trait Summary {
    fn summarize(&self) -> String {
        String::from("(Read more...)")
    }
}
```

To use a default implementation to summarize instances of `NewsArticle`, we specify an empty `impl` block with `impl Summary for NewsArticle {}`.

Default implementations can call other methods in the same trait, even if those other methods don’t have a default implementation.

#### Traits as Parameters

```rust
pub fn notify(item: &impl Summary) {
    println!("Breaking news! {}", item.summarize());
}
```

#### Trait Bound Syntax

```rust
pub fn notify<T: Summary>(item: &T) {
    println!("Breaking news! {}", item.summarize());
}
```

```rust
pub fn notify(item1: &impl Summary, item2: &impl Summary) {
```

Using `impl Trait` is appropriate if we want this function to allow `item1` and `item2` to have different types (as long as both types implement `Summary`). If we want to force both parameters to have the same type, however, we must use a trait bound, like this:

```rust
pub fn notify<T: Summary>(item1: &T, item2: &T) {
```

#### Specifying Multiple Trait Bounds with the + Syntax

We can also specify more than one trait bound. Say we wanted `notify` to use display formatting as well as `summarize` on `item`: we specify in the `notify` definition that `item` must implement both `Display` and `Summary`. We can do so using the `+` syntax:

```rust
pub fn notify(item: &(impl Summary + Display)) {
```

The `+` syntax is also valid with trait bounds on generic types:

```rust
pub fn notify<T: Summary + Display>(item: &T) {
```

#### Clearer Trait Bounds with where Clauses

```rust
fn some_function<T: Display + Clone, U: Clone + Debug>(t: &T, u: &U) -> i32 {
```

we can use a `where` clause, like this:

```rust
fn some_function<T, U>(t: &T, u: &U) -> i32
where
    T: Display + Clone,
    U: Clone + Debug,
{
```

This function’s signature is less cluttered: the function name, parameter list, and return type are close together, similar to a function without lots of trait bounds.

#### Returning Types that Implement Traits

We can also use the `impl Trait` syntax in the return position to return a value of some type that implements a trait, as shown here:

```rust
fn returns_summarizable() -> impl Summary {
    Tweet {
        username: String::from("horse_ebooks"),
        content: String::from(
            "of course, as you probably already know, people",
        ),
        reply: false,
        retweet: false,
    }
}
```

⚠️⚠️⚠️ However, you can only use `impl Trait` if you’re returning a single type. For example, this code that returns either a `NewsArticle` or a `Tweet` with the return type specified as `impl Summary` wouldn’t work:
```rust
fn returns_summarizable(switch: bool) -> impl Summary {
    if switch {
        NewsArticle {
            headline: String::from(
                "Penguins win the Stanley Cup Championship!",
            ),
            location: String::from("Pittsburgh, PA, USA"),
            author: String::from("Iceburgh"),
            content: String::from(
                "The Pittsburgh Penguins once again are the best \
                 hockey team in the NHL.",
            ),
        }
    } else {
        Tweet {
            username: String::from("horse_ebooks"),
            content: String::from(
                "of course, as you probably already know, people",
            ),
            reply: false,
            retweet: false,
        }
    }
}
```

#### Using Trait Bounds to Conditionally Implement Methods

By using a trait bound with an `impl` block that uses generic type parameters, we can implement methods conditionally for types that implement the specified traits.

For example, the type `Pair<T>` always implements the `new` function to return a new instance of `Pair<T>`
But in the next `impl` block, `Pair<T>` only implements the `cmp_display` method if its inner type `T` implements the `PartialOrd` trait that enables comparison _and_ the `Display` trait that enables printing.

```rust
use std::fmt::Display;

struct Pair<T> {
    x: T,
    y: T,
}

impl<T> Pair<T> {
    fn new(x: T, y: T) -> Self {
        Self { x, y }
    }
}

impl<T: Display + PartialOrd> Pair<T> {
    fn cmp_display(&self) {
        if self.x >= self.y {
            println!("The largest member is x = {}", self.x);
        } else {
            println!("The largest member is y = {}", self.y);
        }
    }
}
```

We can also conditionally implement a trait for any type that implements another trait.
Implementations of a trait on any type that satisfies the trait bounds are called _blanket implementations_

```rust
impl<T: Display> ToString for T {
    // --snip--
}
```

Because the standard library has this blanket implementation, we can call the `to_string` method defined by the `ToString` trait on any type that implements the `Display` trait. For example, we can turn integers into their corresponding `String` values like this because integers implement `Display`:

```rust
let s = 3.to_string();
```

## Validating References with Lifetimes

Lifetimes are another kind of generic that we’ve already been using. Rather than ensuring that a type has the behavior we want, lifetimes ensure that references are valid as long as we need them to be.

```rust
fn longest(x: &str, y: &str) -> &str {
    if x.len() > y.len() {
        x
    } else {
        y
    }
}
```
An implementation of the `longest` function that returns the longer of two string slices but does not yet compile

When we’re defining this function, we don’t know the concrete values that will be passed into this function, so we don’t know whether the `if` case or the `else` case will execute. We also don’t know the concrete lifetimes of the references that will be passed in, so we can’t look at the scopes as we did in Listings 10-17 and 10-18 to determine whether the reference we return will always be valid.

#### Lifetime Annotations in Function Signatures

```rust
fn longest<'a>(x: &'a str, y: &'a str) -> &'a str {
    if x.len() > y.len() {
        x
    } else {
        y
    }
}
```

We want the signature to express the following constraint: the returned reference will be valid as long as both the parameters are valid. This is the relationship between lifetimes of the parameters and the return value. We’ll name the lifetime `'a` and then add it to each reference, as shown in Listing

```rust
fn main() {
    let string1 = String::from("long string is long");
    let result;
    {
        let string2 = String::from("xyz");
        result = longest(string1.as_str(), string2.as_str());
    }
    println!("The longest string is {}", result);
}
```
Attempting to use `result` after `string2` has gone out of scope.
The code above will not compile.

The error shows that for `result` to be valid for the `println!` statement, `string2` would need to be valid until the end of the outer scope. Rust knows this because we annotated the lifetimes of the function parameters and return values using the same lifetime parameter `'a`.

#### Lifetime Annotations in Struct Definitions

So far, the structs we’ve defined all hold owned types. We can define structs to hold references, but in that case we would need to add a lifetime annotation on every reference in the struct’s definition.

```rust
struct ImportantExcerpt<'a> {
    part: &'a str,
}

fn main() {
    let novel = String::from("Call me Ishmael. Some years ago...");
    let first_sentence = novel.split('.').next().expect("Could not find a '.'");
    let i = ImportantExcerpt {
        part: first_sentence,
    };
}
```

#### Lifetime Elision

The patterns programmed into Rust’s analysis of references are called the _lifetime elision rules_. These aren’t rules for programmers to follow; they’re a set of particular cases that the compiler will consider, and if your code fits these cases, you don’t need to write the lifetimes explicitly.

Lifetimes on function or method parameters are called _input lifetimes_, and lifetimes on return values are called _output lifetimes_.

The compiler uses three rules to figure out the lifetimes of the references when there aren’t explicit annotations. The first rule applies to input lifetimes, and the second and third rules apply to output lifetimes. If the compiler gets to the end of the three rules and there are still references for which it can’t figure out lifetimes, the compiler will stop with an error.

- The first rule is that the compiler assigns a lifetime parameter to each parameter that’s a reference. In other words, a function with one parameter gets one lifetime parameter: `fn foo<'a>(x: &'a i32)`; a function with two parameters gets two separate lifetime parameters: `fn foo<'a, 'b>(x: &'a i32, y: &'b i32)`; and so on.

- The second rule is that, if there is exactly one input lifetime parameter, that lifetime is assigned to all output lifetime parameters: `fn foo<'a>(x: &'a i32) -> &'a i32`.

- The third rule is that, if there are multiple input lifetime parameters, but one of them is `&self` or `&mut self` because this is a method, the lifetime of `self` is assigned to all output lifetime parameters. This third rule makes methods much nicer to read and write because fewer symbols are necessary.

```rust
fn longest(x: &str, y: &str) -> &str {
```

Let’s apply the first rule: each parameter gets its own lifetime. This time we have two parameters instead of one, so we have two lifetimes:

```rust
fn longest<'a, 'b>(x: &'a str, y: &'b str) -> &str {
```

You can see that the second rule doesn’t apply because there is more than one input lifetime. The third rule doesn’t apply either, because `longest` is a function rather than a method, so none of the parameters are `self`. After working through all three rules, we still haven’t figured out what the return type’s lifetime is. This is why we got an error trying to compile the code in Listing 10-20: the compiler worked through the lifetime elision rules but still couldn’t figure out all the lifetimes of the references in the signature.

#### Lifetime Annotations in Method Definitions

```rust
impl<'a> ImportantExcerpt<'a> {
    fn level(&self) -> i32 {
        3
    }
}
```

```rust
impl<'a> ImportantExcerpt<'a> {
    fn announce_and_return_part(&self, announcement: &str) -> &str {
        println!("Attention please: {}", announcement);
        self.part
    }
}
```

There are two input lifetimes, so Rust applies the first lifetime elision rule and gives both `&self` and `announcement` their own lifetimes. Then, because one of the parameters is `&self`, the return type gets the lifetime of `&self`, and all lifetimes have been accounted for.

#### The Static Lifetime

One special lifetime we need to discuss is `'static`, which denotes that the affected reference _can_ live for the entire duration of the program. All string literals have the `'static` lifetime, which we can annotate as follows:

```rust
let s: &'static str = "I have a static lifetime.";
```

#### Generic Type Parameters, Trait Bounds, and Lifetimes Together

```rust
use std::fmt::Display;

fn longest_with_an_announcement<'a, T>(
    x: &'a str,
    y: &'a str,
    ann: T,
) -> &'a str
where
    T: Display,
{
    println!("Announcement! {}", ann);
    if x.len() > y.len() {
        x
    } else {
        y
    }
}
```

`generic type parameters, traits and trait bounds, and generic lifetime parameters`


**Note** It's important to understand that lifetime annotations are _descriptive_, not _prescriptive_. This means that how long a reference is valid is determined by the code, not by the annotations. The annotations, however, give information about lifetimes to the compiler that uses them to check the validity of references. The compiler can do so without annotations in simple cases, but needs the programmer's support in complex scenarios.