Unlike functions, closures can capture values from the scope in which they’re defined.

## Closures: Anonymous Functions that Capture Their Environment

```rust
impl Inventory {
    fn giveaway(&self, user_preference: Option<ShirtColor>) -> ShirtColor {
        user_preference.unwrap_or_else(|| self.most_stocked())
    }
//---- snip
```

The standard library didn’t need to know anything about the `Inventory` or `ShirtColor` types we defined, or the logic we want to use in this scenario. The closure captures an immutable reference to the `self` `Inventory` instance and passes it with the code we specify to the `unwrap_or_else` method. Functions, on the other hand, are not able to capture their environment in this way.

#### Closure Type Inference and Annotation

There are more differences between functions and closures. Closures don’t usually require you to annotate the types of the parameters or the return value like `fn` functions do. Type annotations are required on functions because the types are part of an explicit interface exposed to your users. Defining this interface rigidly is important for ensuring that everyone agrees on what types of values a function uses and returns. Closures, on the other hand, aren’t used in an exposed interface like this: they’re stored in variables and used without naming them and exposing them to users of our library.

Closures are typically short and relevant only within a narrow context rather than in any arbitrary scenario.

As with variables, we can add type annotations if we want to increase explicitness and clarity at the cost of being more verbose than is strictly necessary.

```rust
 let expensive_closure = |num: u32| -> u32 {
        println!("calculating slowly...");
        thread::sleep(Duration::from_secs(2));
        num
    };
```

```rust
fn  add_one_v1   (x: u32) -> u32 { x + 1 }
let add_one_v2 = |x: u32| -> u32 { x + 1 };
let add_one_v3 = |x|             { x + 1 };
let add_one_v4 = |x|               x + 1  ;
```

The first line shows a function definition, and the second line shows a fully annotated closure definition. In the third line, we remove the type annotations from the closure definition. In the fourth line, we remove the brackets, which are optional because the closure body has only one expression. These are all valid definitions that will produce the same behavior when they’re called.

```rust
 let example_closure = |x| x;

    let s = example_closure(String::from("hello"));
    let n = example_closure(5);
```

Note that we haven’t added any type annotations to the definition. Because there are no type annotations, `we can call the closure with any type`, which we’ve done here with `String` the first time. If we then try to call `example_closure` with an integer, we’ll get an error.

The first time we call `example_closure` with the `String` value, the compiler infers the type of `x` and the return type of the closure to be `String`. Those types are then locked into the closure in `example_closure`, and we get a type error when we next try to use a different type with the same closure.

#### Capturing References or Moving Ownership



Closures can capture values from their environment in three ways, which directly map to the three ways a function can take a parameter:
- borrowing immutably
- borrowing mutably, 
- and taking ownership.
The closure will decide which of these to use based on what the body of the function does with the captured values.

we define a closure that captures an immutable reference to the vector named `list` because it only needs an immutable reference to print the value:

```rust
fn main() {
    let list = vec![1, 2, 3];
    println!("Before defining closure: {:?}", list);

    let only_borrows = || println!("From closure: {:?}", list);

    println!("Before calling closure: {:?}", list);
    only_borrows();
    println!("After calling closure: {:?}", list);
}
```

we change the closure body so that it adds an element to the `list` vector. The closure now captures a mutable reference:

```rust
fn main() {
    let mut list = vec![1, 2, 3];
    println!("Before defining closure: {:?}", list);

    let mut borrows_mutably = || list.push(7);

    borrows_mutably();
    println!("After calling closure: {:?}", list);
}
```

Between the closure definition and the closure call, an immutable borrow to print isn’t allowed because no other borrows are allowed when there’s a mutable borrow. Try adding a `println!` there to see what error message you get!

If you want to force the closure to take ownership of the values it uses in the environment even though the body of the closure doesn’t strictly need ownership, you can use the `move` keyword before the parameter list.

```rust
use std::thread;

fn main() {
    let list = vec![1, 2, 3];
    println!("Before defining closure: {:?}", list);

    thread::spawn(move || println!("From thread: {:?}", list))
        .join()
        .unwrap();
}
```

## Moving Captured Values Out of Closures and the Fn Traits

- The way a closure captures and handles values from the environment affects which **traits the closure implements**.
- A closure body can do any of the following: move a captured value out of the closure, mutate the captured value, neither move nor mutate the value, or capture nothing from the environment to begin with.
- Closures will automatically implement one, two, or all three of these `Fn` traits, in an additive fashion, depending on how the closure’s body handles the values.

1. `FnOnce` applies to closures that can be called once. All closures implement at least this trait, because all closures can be called. A closure that moves captured values out of its body will only implement `FnOnce` and none of the other `Fn` traits, because it can only be called once.
2. `FnMut` applies to closures that don’t move captured values out of their body, but that might mutate the captured values. These closures can be called more than once.
3. `Fn` applies to closures that don’t *move* captured values out of their body and that don’t *mutate* captured values, as well as closures that capture nothing from their environment. These closures can be called more than once without mutating their environment, which is important in cases such as calling a closure multiple times concurrently.

```rust
impl<T> Option<T> {
    pub fn unwrap_or_else<F>(self, f: F) -> T
    where
        F: FnOnce() -> T
    {
        match self {
            Some(x) => x,
            None => f(),
        }
    }
}
```

Recall that `T` is the generic type representing the type of the value in the `Some` variant of an `Option`. That type `T` is also the return type of the `unwrap_or_else` function

Next, notice that the `unwrap_or_else` function has the additional generic type parameter `F`. The `F` type is the type of the parameter named `f`, which is the closure we provide when calling `unwrap_or_else`.

The trait bound specified on the generic type `F` is `FnOnce() -> T`, which means `F` must be able to be called once, take no arguments, and return a `T`. Using `FnOnce` in the trait bound expresses the constraint that `unwrap_or_else` is only going to call `f` at most one time.

----


Now let’s look at the standard library method `sort_by_key` defined on slices, to see how that differs from `unwrap_or_else` and why `sort_by_key` uses `FnMut` instead of `FnOnce` for the trait bound.

```rust
#[derive(Debug)]
struct Rectangle {
    width: u32,
    height: u32,
}

fn main() {
    let mut list = [
        Rectangle { width: 10, height: 1 },
        Rectangle { width: 3, height: 5 },
        Rectangle { width: 7, height: 12 },
    ];

    let mut sort_operations = vec![];
    let value = String::from("by key called");

    list.sort_by_key(|r| {
        sort_operations.push(value);
        r.width
    });
    println!("{:#?}", list);
}
```

- because it moves a value out of the environment. The compiler won’t let us use this closure with `sort_by_key`
- This closure can be called once; trying to call it a second time wouldn’t work because `value` would no longer be in the environment to be pushed into `sort_operations` again! Therefore, this closure only implements `FnOnce`.


## Processing a Series of Items with Iterators

```rust
#[test]
    fn iterator_demonstration() {
        let v1 = vec![1, 2, 3];

        let mut v1_iter = v1.iter();

        assert_eq!(v1_iter.next(), Some(&1));
        assert_eq!(v1_iter.next(), Some(&2));
        assert_eq!(v1_iter.next(), Some(&3));
        assert_eq!(v1_iter.next(), None);
    }
```

Also note that the values we get from the calls to `next` are immutable references to the values in the vector. The `iter` method produces an iterator over immutable references. If we want to create an iterator that takes ownership of `v1` and returns owned values, we can call `into_iter` instead of `iter`. Similarly, if we want to iterate over mutable references, we can call `iter_mut` instead of `iter`.

---
- The `Iterator` trait has a number of different methods
- Methods that call `next` are called _consuming adaptors_
- One example is the `sum` method, which takes ownership of the iterator and iterates through the items by repeatedly calling `next`, thus consuming the iterator.

#### Methods that Produce Other Iterators

_Iterator adaptors_ are methods defined on the `Iterator` trait that don’t consume the iterator. Instead, they produce different iterators by changing some aspect of the original iterator.

```rust
 let v1: Vec<i32> = vec![1, 2, 3];

    let v2: Vec<_> = v1.iter().map(|x| x + 1).collect();

    assert_eq!(v2, vec![2, 3, 4]);
```

the iterator adaptor method `map`, which takes a closure to call on each item as the items are iterated through. The `map` method returns a new iterator that produces the modified items.

the `collect` method `consumes` the iterator and collects the resulting values into a collection data type.

#### Using Closures that Capture Their Environment

Many iterator adapters take closures as arguments, and commonly the closures we’ll specify as arguments to iterator adapters will be closures that capture their environment.
For this example, we’ll use the `filter` method that takes a closure. The closure gets an item from the iterator and returns a `bool`. If the closure returns `true`, the value will be included in the iteration produced by `filter`. If the closure returns `false`, the value won’t be included.

```rust
#[derive(PartialEq, Debug)]
struct Shoe {
    size: u32,
    style: String,
}

fn shoes_in_size(shoes: Vec<Shoe>, shoe_size: u32) -> Vec<Shoe> {
    shoes.into_iter().filter(|s| s.size == shoe_size).collect()
}

#[cfg(test)]
mod tests {
    use super::*;

    #[test]
    fn filters_by_size() {
        let shoes = vec![
            Shoe {
                size: 10,
                style: String::from("sneaker"),
            },
            Shoe {
                size: 13,
                style: String::from("sandal"),
            },
            Shoe {
                size: 10,
                style: String::from("boot"),
            },
        ];

        let in_my_size = shoes_in_size(shoes, 10);

        assert_eq!(
            in_my_size,
            vec![
                Shoe {
                    size: 10,
                    style: String::from("sneaker")
                },
                Shoe {
                    size: 10,
                    style: String::from("boot")
                },
            ]
        );
    }
}
```

The `shoes_in_size` function takes ownership of a vector of shoes and a shoe size as parameters. It returns a vector containing only shoes of the specified size.

In the body of `shoes_in_size`, we call `into_iter` to create an iterator that takes ownership of the vector. Then we call `filter` to adapt that iterator into a new iterator that only contains elements for which the closure returns `true`.


## Comparing Performance: Loops vs. Iterators

Iterators are one of Rust’s _zero-cost abstractions_, by which we mean using the abstraction imposes no additional runtime overhead. This is analogous to how Bjarne Stroustrup, the original designer and implementor of C++, defines _zero-overhead_ in “Foundations of C++” (2012)

In general, C++ implementations obey the zero-overhead principle: What you don’t use, you don’t pay for. And further: What you do use, you couldn’t hand code any better.

Closures and iterators are Rust features inspired by functional programming language ideas. They contribute to Rust’s capability to clearly express high-level ideas at low-level performance. The implementations of closures and iterators are such that runtime performance is not affected. This is part of Rust’s goal to strive to provide zero-cost abstractions.