
## Defining an Enum

#### Enums and Pattern Matching

```rust
enum IpAddrKind {
    V4,
    V6,
}

let four = IpAddrKind::V4;
let six = IpAddrKind::V6;

```

```rust
enum Message {
    Quit,
    Move { x: i32, y: i32 },
    Write(String),
    ChangeColor(i32, i32, i32),
}
```

This enum has four variants with different types:
  `Quit` has no data associated with it at all.
  `Move` has named fields, like a struct does.
  `Write` includes a single String.
  `ChangeColor` includes three i32 values.

we’re also able to define methods on enums.

```rust
impl Message {
    fn call(&self) {
        // method body would be defined here
    }
}

let m = Message::Write(String::from("hello"));
m.call();
```

#### The Option Enum and Its Advantages Over Null Values

The Option type encodes the very common scenario in which a value could be something or it could be nothing.

```rust
enum Option<T> {
    None,
    Some(T),
}

let some_number = Some(5);
let some_char = Some('e');

let absent_number: Option<i32> = None;

```

Eliminating the risk of incorrectly assuming a not-null value helps you to be more confident in your code. In order to have a value that can possibly be null, you must explicitly opt in by making the type of that value `Option<T>`. Then, when you use that value, you are required to explicitly handle the case when the value is null. Everywhere that a value has a type that isn’t an `Option<T>`, you _can_ safely assume that the value isn’t null. This was a deliberate design decision for Rust to limit null’s pervasiveness and increase the safety of Rust code.

So how do you get the `T` value out of a `Some` variant when you have a value of type `Option<T>` so that you can use that value? The `Option<T>` enum has a large number of methods that are useful in a variety of situations; you can check them out in [its documentation](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/option/enum.Option.html). Becoming familiar with the methods on `Option<T>` will be extremely useful in your journey with Rust.

In general, in order to use an `Option<T>` value, you want to have code that will handle each variant. You want some code that will run only when you have a `Some(T)` value, and this code is allowed to use the inner `T`. You want some other code to run only if you have a `None` value, and that code doesn’t have a `T` value available. The `match` expression is a control flow construct that does just this when used with enums: it will run different code depending on which variant of the enum it has, and that code can use the data inside the matching value.

## The match Control Flow Construct

```rust
enum Coin {
    Penny,
    Nickel,
    Dime,
    Quarter,
}

fn value_in_cents(coin: Coin) -> u8 {
    match coin {
        Coin::Penny => 1,
        Coin::Nickel => 5,
        Coin::Dime => 10,
        Coin::Quarter => 25,
    }
}

```

#### Matching with `Option<T>`

```rust
fn plus_one(x: Option<i32>) -> Option<i32> {
    match x {
        None => None,
        Some(i) => Some(i + 1),
    }
}

let five = Some(5);
let six = plus_one(five);
let none = plus_one(None);

```

Combining `match` and enums is useful in many situations. You’ll see this pattern a lot in Rust code: `match` against an enum, bind a variable to the data inside, and then execute code based on it. It’s a bit tricky at first, but once you get used to it, you’ll wish you had it in all languages. It’s consistently a user favorite.

Rust knows that we didn’t cover every possible case, and even knows which pattern we forgot! Matches in Rust are _exhaustive_: we must exhaust every last possibility in order for the code to be valid.


```rust
let dice_roll = 9;
match dice_roll {
    3 => add_fancy_hat(),
    7 => remove_fancy_hat(),
    //other => move_player(other),
    //_ => move_player(),
    _ => (),
}

fn add_fancy_hat() {}
fn remove_fancy_hat() {}
//fn move_player() {}
fn move_player(num_spaces: u8) {}
```

Here, we’re telling Rust explicitly that we aren’t going to use any other value that doesn’t match a pattern in an earlier arm, and we don’t want to run any code in this case by using `()`.

`_` is a special pattern that matches any value and does not bind to that value. 

## Concise Control Flow with if let

```rust
let config_max = Some(3u8);
match config_max {
    Some(max) => println!("The maximum is configured to be {}", max),
    _ => (),
}

//========>


let config_max = Some(3u8);
if let Some(max) = config_max {
    println!("The maximum is configured to be {}", max);
}

```

In other words, you can think of `if let` as syntax sugar for a `match` that runs code when the value matches one pattern and then ignores all other values.

We can include an else with an if let.

```rust
let mut count = 0;
match coin {
    Coin::Quarter(state) => println!("State quarter from {:?}!", state),
    _ => count += 1,
}

//========>

let mut count = 0;
if let Coin::Quarter(state) = coin {
    println!("State quarter from {:?}!", state);
} else {
    count += 1;
}
```