Rust has a number of features that allow you to manage your code’s organization, including which details are exposed, which details are private, and what names are in each scope in your programs. These features, sometimes collectively referred to as the _module system_, include:

- **Packages:** A Cargo feature that lets you build, test, and share crates
- **Crates:** A tree of modules that produces a library or executable
- **Modules** and **use:** Let you control the organization, scope, and privacy of paths
- **Paths:** A way of naming an item, such as a struct, function, or module


## Packages and Crates

#### Crate

A crate can come in one of two forms: a binary crate or a library crate.
	- _Binary crates_ are programs you can compile to an executable that you can run
	- _Library crates_ don’t have a `main` function, and they don’t compile to an executable. Instead, they define functionality intended to be shared with multiple projects.
The _crate root_ is a source file that the Rust compiler starts from and makes up the root module of your crate

#### Package

A _package_ is a bundle of one or more crates that provides a set of functionality. A package contains a _Cargo.toml_ file that describes how to build those crates.

After we run `cargo new`, we have a package that only contains _src/main.rs_, meaning it only contains a binary crate named `my-project`. If a package contains _src/main.rs_ and _src/lib.rs_, it has two crates: a binary and a library, both with the same name as the package. A package can have multiple binary crates by placing files in the _src/bin_ directory: each file will be a separate binary crate.
Cargo passes the crate root files to `rustc` to build the library or binary.


## Defining Modules to Control Scope and Privacy

`use, pub, as`

#### Modules Cheat Sheet

Here we provide a quick reference on how modules, paths, the `use` keyword, and the `pub` keyword work in the compiler, and how most developers organize their code. We’ll be going through examples of each of these rules throughout this chapter, but this is a great place to refer to as a reminder of how modules work.

- **Start from the crate root**: When compiling a crate, the compiler first looks in the crate root file (usually _src/lib.rs_ for a library crate or _src/main.rs_ for a binary crate) for code to compile.
- **Declaring modules**: In the crate root file, you can declare new modules; say, you declare a “garden” module with `mod garden;`. The compiler will look for the module’s code in these places:
    - Inline, within curly brackets that replace the semicolon following `mod garden`
    - In the file _src/garden.rs_
    - In the file _src/garden/mod.rs_
- **Declaring submodules**: In any file other than the crate root, you can declare submodules. For example, you might declare `mod vegetables;` in _src/garden.rs_. The compiler will look for the submodule’s code within the directory named for the parent module in these places:
    - Inline, directly following `mod vegetables`, within curly brackets instead of the semicolon
    - In the file _src/garden/vegetables.rs_
    - In the file _src/garden/vegetables/mod.rs_
- **Paths to code in modules**: Once a module is part of your crate, you can refer to code in that module from anywhere else in that same crate, as long as the privacy rules allow, using the path to the code. For example, an `Asparagus` type in the garden vegetables module would be found at `crate::garden::vegetables::Asparagus`.
- **Private vs public**: Code within a module is private from its parent modules by default. To make a module public, declare it with `pub mod` instead of `mod`. To make items within a public module public as well, use `pub` before their declarations.
- **The `use` keyword**: Within a scope, the `use` keyword creates shortcuts to items to reduce repetition of long paths. In any scope that can refer to `crate::garden::vegetables::Asparagus`, you can create a shortcut with `use crate::garden::vegetables::Asparagus;` and from then on you only need to write `Asparagus` to make use of that type in the scope.

Here we create a binary crate named `backyard` that illustrates these rules. The crate’s directory, also named `backyard`, contains these files and directories:

```text
backyard
├── Cargo.lock
├── Cargo.toml
└── src
    ├── garden
    │   └── vegetables.rs
    ├── garden.rs
    └── main.rs
```

The crate root file in this case is _src/main.rs_, and it contains:

Filename: src/main.rs

```rust
use crate::garden::vegetables::Asparagus;

pub mod garden;

fn main() {
    let plant = Asparagus {};
    println!("I'm growing {:?}!", plant);
}
```

The `pub mod garden;` line tells the compiler to include the code it finds in _src/garden.rs_, which is:

Filename: src/garden.rs

```rust
pub mod vegetables;
```

Here, `pub mod vegetables;` means the code in _src/garden/vegetables.rs_ is included too. That code is:

```rust
#[derive(Debug)]
pub struct Asparagus {}
```

#### Grouping Related Code in Modules

- _Modules_ let us organize code within a crate for readability and easy reuse.
- Modules also allow us to control the _privacy_ of items
- code within a module is private by default.

Create a new library named `restaurant` by running `cargo new restaurant --lib`; then enter the code in Listing 7-1 into _src/lib.rs_

```rust
mod front_of_house {
    mod hosting {
        fn add_to_waitlist() {}

        fn seat_at_table() {}
    }

    mod serving {
        fn take_order() {}

        fn serve_order() {}

        fn take_payment() {}
    }
}
```

## Paths for Referring to an Item in the Module Tree

A path can take two forms:

- An _absolute path_ is the full path starting from a crate root; for code from an external crate, the absolute path begins with the crate name, and for code from the current crate, it starts with the literal `crate`.
- A _relative path_ starts from the current module and uses `self`, `super`, or an identifier in the current module.

- In the absolute path, we start with `crate`, the root of our crate’s module tree.
- `super` allows us to reference an item that we know is in the parent module
- We can also use `pub` to designate structs and enums as public, but there are a few details extra to the usage of `pub` with structs and enums. If we use `pub` before a struct definition, we make the struct public, but the struct’s fields will still be private. We can make each field public or not on a case-by-case basis.
- In contrast, if we make an enum public, all of its variants are then public. We only need the `pub` before the `enum` keyword.


## Bringing Paths into Scope with the use Keyword

```rust
mod front_of_house {
    pub mod hosting {
        pub fn add_to_waitlist() {}
    }
}

use crate::front_of_house::hosting;

pub fn eat_at_restaurant() {
    hosting::add_to_waitlist();
}
```

#### Providing New Names with the as Keyword

```rust
use std::fmt::Result;
use std::io::Result as IoResult;

fn function1() -> Result {
    // --snip--
}

fn function2() -> IoResult<()> {
    // --snip--
}
```

#### Re-exporting Names with pub use

When we bring a name into scope with the `use` keyword, the name available in the new scope is private. To enable the code that calls our code to refer to that name as if it had been defined in that code’s scope, we can combine `pub` and `use`. This technique is called _re-exporting_ because we’re bringing an item into scope but also making that item available for others to bring into their scope.

```rust
mod front_of_house {
    pub mod hosting {
        pub fn add_to_waitlist() {}
    }
}

pub use crate::front_of_house::hosting;

pub fn eat_at_restaurant() {
    hosting::add_to_waitlist();
}
```

#### Using Nested Paths to Clean Up Large use Lists

```rust
// --snip--
use std::cmp::Ordering;
use std::io;
// --snip--
```
Into
```rust
// --snip--
use std::{cmp::Ordering, io};
// --snip--
```


```rust
use std::io;
use std::io::Write;
```
Into
```rust
use std::io::{self, Write};
```

#### The Glob Operator

If we want to bring _all_ public items defined in a path into scope, we can specify that path followed by the `*` glob operator:
```rust
use std::collections::*;
```


## Separating Modules into Different Files




