Rust doesn’t have exceptions. Instead, it has the type `Result<T, E>` for recoverable errors and the `panic!` macro that stops execution when the program encounters an unrecoverable error.

## Unrecoverable Errors with panic!

Sometimes, bad things happen in your code, and there’s nothing you can do about it. In these cases, Rust has the `panic!` macro.

panics will print a failure message, unwind, clean up the stack, and quit. Via an environment variable, you can also have Rust display the call stack when a panic occurs to make it easier to track down the source of the panic.

By default, when a panic occurs, the program starts _unwinding_, which means Rust walks back up the stack and cleans up the data from each function it encounters. However, this walking back and cleanup is a lot of work. Rust, therefore, allows you to choose the alternative of immediately _aborting_, which ends the program without cleaning up.

If in your project you need to make the resulting binary as small as possible, you can switch from unwinding to aborting upon a panic by adding `panic = 'abort'` to the appropriate `[profile]` sections in your _Cargo.toml_ file. For example, if you want to abort on panic in release mode, add this:

```toml
[profile.release]
panic = 'abort'
```

```rust
fn main() {
    panic!("crash and burn");
}
```

we can set the `RUST_BACKTRACE` environment variable to get a backtrace of exactly what happened to cause the error.


## Recoverable Errors with Result

```rust
enum Result<T, E> {
    Ok(T),
    Err(E),
}
```

`T` represents the type of the value that will be returned in a success case within the `Ok` variant, and `E` represents the type of the error that will be returned in a failure case within the `Err` variant.

```rust
use std::fs::File;

fn main() {
	let greeting_file_result = File::open("hello.txt");
	
	let greeting_file = match greeting_file_result {
		Ok(file) => file,
		Err(error) => panic!("Problem opening the file: {:?}", error),
	};
}
```

#### Matching on Different Errors

```rust
use std::fs::File;
use std::io::ErrorKind;

fn main() {
    let greeting_file_result = File::open("hello.txt");

    let greeting_file = match greeting_file_result {
        Ok(file) => file,
        Err(error) => match error.kind() {
            ErrorKind::NotFound => match File::create("hello.txt") {
                Ok(fc) => fc,
                Err(e) => panic!("Problem creating the file: {:?}", e),
            },
            other_error => {
                panic!("Problem opening the file: {:?}", other_error);
            }
        },
    };
}
```

Alternatives to Using match with Result<T, E>

```rust
use std::fs::File;
use std::io::ErrorKind;

fn main() {
    let greeting_file = File::open("hello.txt").unwrap_or_else(|error| {
        if error.kind() == ErrorKind::NotFound {
            File::create("hello.txt").unwrap_or_else(|error| {
                panic!("Problem creating the file: {:?}", error);
            })
        } else {
            panic!("Problem opening the file: {:?}", error);
        }
    });
}
```

#### Shortcuts for Panic on Error: unwrap and expect

If the `Result` value is the `Ok` variant, `unwrap` will return the value inside the `Ok`. If the `Result` is the `Err` variant, `unwrap` will call the `panic!` macro for us.

```rust
use std::fs::File;

fn main() {
    let greeting_file = File::open("hello.txt").unwrap();
}
```

Using `expect` instead of `unwrap` and providing good error messages can convey your intent and make tracking down the source of a panic easier.

```rust
use std::fs::File;

fn main() {
    let greeting_file = File::open("hello.txt")
        .expect("hello.txt should be included in this project");
}
```

#### Propagating Errors

When a function’s implementation calls something that might fail, instead of handling the error within the function itself, you can return the error to the calling code so that it can decide what to do.

```rust
use std::fs::File;
use std::io::{self, Read};

fn read_username_from_file() -> Result<String, io::Error> {
    let username_file_result = File::open("hello.txt");

    let mut username_file = match username_file_result {
        Ok(file) => file,
        Err(e) => return Err(e),
    };

    let mut username = String::new();

    match username_file.read_to_string(&mut username) {
        Ok(_) => Ok(username),
        Err(e) => Err(e),
    }
}
```

This pattern of propagating errors is so common in Rust that Rust provides the question mark operator `?` to make this easier.
```rust
use std::fs::File;
use std::io::{self, Read};

fn read_username_from_file() -> Result<String, io::Error> {
    let mut username_file = File::open("hello.txt")?;
    let mut username = String::new();
    username_file.read_to_string(&mut username)?;
    Ok(username)
}
```
The `?` placed after a `Result` value is defined to work in almost the same way as the `match` expressions we defined to handle the `Result` values in Listing 9-6. If the value of the `Result` is an `Ok`, the value inside the `Ok` will get returned from this expression, and the program will continue. If the value is an `Err`, the `Err` will be returned from the whole function as if we had used the `return` keyword so the error value gets propagated to the calling code.

There is a difference between what the `match` expression from Listing 9-6 does and what the `?` operator does: error values that have the `?` operator called on them go through the `from` function, defined in the `From` trait in the standard library, which is used to convert values from one type into another. When the `?` operator calls the `from` function, the error type received is converted into the error type defined in the return type of the current function. This is useful when a function returns one error type to represent all the ways a function might fail, even if parts might fail for many different reasons.

For example, we could change the `read_username_from_file` function in Listing 9-7 to return a custom error type named `OurError` that we define. If we also define `impl From<io::Error> for OurError` to construct an instance of `OurError` from an `io::Error`, then the `?` operator calls in the body of `read_username_from_file` will call `from` and convert the error types without needing to add any more code to the function.

----

We could even shorten this code further by chaining method calls immediately after the `?`

```rust
use std::fs::File;
use std::io::{self, Read};

fn read_username_from_file() -> Result<String, io::Error> {
    let mut username = String::new();

    File::open("hello.txt")?.read_to_string(&mut username)?;

    Ok(username)
}
```


The error message also mentioned that `?` can be used with `Option<T>` values as well. As with using `?` on `Result`, you can only use `?` on `Option` in a function that returns an `Option`. The behavior of the `?` operator when called on an `Option<T>` is similar to its behavior when called on a `Result<T, E>`: if the value is `None`, the `None` will be returned early from the function at that point. If the value is `Some`, the value inside the `Some` is the resulting value of the expression and the function continues.

```rust
fn last_char_of_first_line(text: &str) -> Option<char> {
    text.lines().next()?.chars().last()
}
```

Note that you can use the `?` operator on a `Result` in a function that returns `Result`, and you can use the `?` operator on an `Option` in a function that returns `Option`, but you can’t mix and match. The `?` operator won’t automatically convert a `Result` to an `Option` or vice versa; in those cases, you can use methods like the `ok` method on `Result` or the `ok_or` method on `Option` to do the conversion explicitly.

The `main` function may return any types that implement [the `std::process::Termination` trait](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/process/trait.Termination.html), which contains a function `report` that returns an `ExitCode`. Consult the standard library documentation for more information on implementing the `Termination` trait for your own types.



