## ACID

In [computer science](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_science "Computer science"), **ACID** ([atomicity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Atomicity_(database_systems) "Atomicity (database systems)"), [consistency](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consistency_(database_systems) "Consistency (database systems)"), [isolation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Isolation_(database_systems) "Isolation (database systems)"), [durability](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Durability_(database_systems) "Durability (database systems)")) is a set of properties of [database transactions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Database_transaction "Database transaction") intended to guarantee data validity despite errors, power failures, and other mishaps
## SQL and NSQL

## MongoDB

- https://mongoosejs.com/docs/schematypes.html

### Connect to mongoDB

To connect your Node.js application to a free online MongoDB database from the MongoDB Atlas cloud service, follow these steps:

1.  Sign up for a free MongoDB Atlas account at [https://www.mongodb.com/cloud/atlas](https://www.mongodb.com/cloud/atlas). Create a new project and follow the instructions to create a new cluster.
    
2.  Once your cluster is created, go to the "Clusters" page and click the "Connect" button for your cluster. From there, you can choose to connect using a MongoDB driver, which will give you a connection string that you can use to connect to your cluster.
    
3.  In your Node.js application, install the `mongodb` package using `npm`:
```
npm install mongodb
```

```js
const MongoClient = require('mongodb').MongoClient;

// Replace the connection string with your own
const uri = 'mongodb+srv://<username>:<password>@<cluster-url>/<database-name>?retryWrites=true&w=majority';

const client = new MongoClient(uri, { useNewUrlParser: true, useUnifiedTopology: true });

async function connect() {
  try {
    await client.connect();
    console.log('Connected to MongoDB');
    const db = client.db('<database-name>');
    // Use the db object to interact with your database
  } catch (err) {
    console.error(err);
  }
}

connect();

```


### Schema, Document, Collection, Model

- https://mongoosejs.com/docs/api/model.html

In MongoDB, there are several important concepts that are used to organize and manipulate data. Here's an overview of these concepts:

1.  **Schema**: In MongoDB, the term "schema" refers to the structure of your data. Unlike traditional relational databases, MongoDB is a document-oriented database that allows you to store data in a flexible schema-less format. However, you can still enforce some degree of structure on your data using the Mongoose library (which provides a schema definition language) or other similar tools.
    
2.  **Document**: In MongoDB, a "document" is a single instance of data stored in a collection. Documents are similar to rows in a traditional relational database, but they are stored in a JSON-like format (called BSON) and can have flexible, nested structures.
    
3.  **Collection**: In MongoDB, a "collection" is a group of related documents. Collections are similar to tables in a traditional relational database, but they are schema-less and can store documents with varying structures. For example, you might have a collection of "users" that stores information about individual users in your application.
    
4.  **Model**: In MongoDB, a "model" is a higher-level abstraction that provides a way to interact with a collection of documents. Models are typically implemented using an Object-Document Mapper (ODM) or Object-Relational Mapper (ORM) library, such as Mongoose or Mongorito. Models can provide a number of useful features, such as validation, schema enforcement, and easy querying and manipulation of data.

### Operation on mongose model

In Mongoose, a model is a higher-level abstraction that provides a way to interact with a collection of documents in MongoDB. Once you have defined a Mongoose model, you can perform a number of operations on it, such as:

**Creating documents**: You can create new documents in a collection by instantiating a new instance of your Mongoose model and calling the `save()` method. For example:
```js
const User = mongoose.model('User', userSchema);

const newUser = new User({
  name: 'John Smith',
  email: 'john@example.com',
  age: 30
});

newUser.save(function (err) {
  if (err) {
    console.error(err);
  } else {
    console.log('User saved successfully!');
  }
});
```

**Querying documents**: You can query documents in a collection using the `find()` or `findOne()` methods of your Mongoose model. For example:

```js
// Find all users
User.find(function (err, users) {
  if (err) {
    console.error(err);
  } else {
    console.log(users);
  }
});

// Find a single user
User.findOne({ email: 'john@example.com' }, function (err, user) {
  if (err) {
    console.error(err);
  } else {
    console.log(user);
  }
});
```

**Updating documents**: You can update existing documents in a collection using the `updateOne()`, `updateMany()`, or `findOneAndUpdate()` methods of your Mongoose model. For example:

```js
// Update a single user
User.updateOne({ email: 'john@example.com' }, { age: 31 }, function (err, result) {
  if (err) {
    console.error(err);
  } else {
    console.log('User updated successfully!');
  }
});

```

**Deleting documents**: You can delete documents in a collection using the `deleteOne()`, `deleteMany()`, or `findOneAndDelete()` methods of your Mongoose model. For example:

```js
// Delete a single user
User.deleteOne({ email: 'john@example.com' }, function (err, result) {
  if (err) {
    console.error(err);
  } else {
    console.log('User deleted successfully!');
  }
});

```

## \_id \_\_v

In Mongoose, `_id` and `__v` are special properties that are automatically added to each document by default.

`_id` is a unique identifier assigned to each document in a collection. It is an ObjectId by default, which is a 12-byte binary value that includes a timestamp, machine identifier, and process identifier. You can also specify your own `_id` values when creating documents.

`__v` is a version key that is used for document versioning. It is incremented automatically by Mongoose whenever a document is updated. The version key is used to ensure that no two clients are modifying the same document at the same time. If two clients try to modify the same document, the version number will be used to determine which client's changes are applied.

### mongo with jest

