
## Node Module

```js
// file1.js

// const { b } = require('./file2')
const b = require('./file2')
console.log(b)
```

```js
// file2.js

const b = 5
module.exports.b = b

//or
//exports.b = b
//or
//module.exports = { b }
```

## ECMA Module in Node

```js
//file.js

import { a } from './3_ecma_module2.mjs'

console.log(a)
```

```js

//3_ecma_module2.mjs

const a = 4

export {
	a
}
```

## Module caching

In Node.js, modules are cached after being loaded for the first time, which means that subsequent requests for that module will return the cached version instead of loading it again from disk. This caching mechanism can improve the performance of applications that use Node.js by reducing the time spent on disk I/O.

When a module is loaded for the first time, Node.js wraps the module code in a function and stores the resulting object in a cache. The module code is executed within this function, and any variables declared within the module are scoped to that function.

If another part of the application requires the same module, Node.js retrieves the cached version of the module from memory and returns it. This means that any changes made to the module after it has been cached will not be reflected in other parts of the application that have already required the module.

To illustrate this, consider the following example:

```js
// file1.js
let counter = 0;
module.exports = {
  increment() {
    counter++;
  },
  getCount() {
    return counter;
  }
};

```

```js
// file2.js
const counter1 = require('./file1');
const counter2 = require('./file1');

console.log(counter1.getCount()); // Output: 0
console.log(counter2.getCount()); // Output: 0

counter1.increment();
console.log(counter1.getCount()); // Output: 1
console.log(counter2.getCount()); // Output: 1
```

- The code inside the module will excute once
- There is cache object

```js
console.log(require.cache)
```


## Index.js

In Node.js, you can use the `require()` function to load modules or files. If you want to require a folder, Node.js will look for an `index.js` file in that folder by default, and execute it if found. However, if an `index.js` file is not found, Node.js will look for a `package.json` file in the folder and use the `main` property to determine the entry point of the folder.

If there is no `index.js` file or `package.json` file, Node.js will throw a `MODULE_NOT_FOUND` error.

```js
myFolder
├── index.js
├── utils.js
```

You can require the `myFolder` folder in another file like this:

```js
const myFolder = require('./myFolder');
```

```js

//index.js
module.exports = {
	...require('./file2'),
	...require('./file1')
}
```