Here are some basic `npm` commands:

1.  `npm init`: Initializes a new Node.js project, creating a `package.json` file with the basic project information.
    
2.  `npm install [package]`: Installs a package and its dependencies locally. You can use the `--save` flag to add the package to your `package.json` dependencies, or `--save-dev` to add it to your dev dependencies.
    
3.  `npm uninstall [package]`: Removes a package and its dependencies.
    
4.  `npm update [package]`: Updates a package to the latest version.
    
5.  `npm outdated`: Lists all packages that are outdated.
    
6.  `npm search [query]`: Searches for packages on the npm registry that match the specified query.
    
7.  `npm run [script]`: Runs a script defined in the `package.json` file.
    
8.  `npm start`: Runs the script defined in the `package.json` file as the `start` script.
    
9.  `npm test`: Runs the script defined in the `package.json` file as the `test` script.
    
10.  `npm publish`: Publishes a package to the npm registry.
    
11.  `npm version`: Bumps the version of the package according to the specified semver versioning scheme.
    
12.  `npm ls`: Lists all installed packages and their dependencies.
    

These are just a few of the many commands available in `npm`. You can get more information about `npm` commands and their usage by running `npm help`.

## Sementic version

For example, if you have a version 1.2.3, it means:

-   MAJOR version is 1
-   MINOR version is 2
-   PATCH version is 3

When you release a new version of your package, you should increment the version number according to the following rules:

-   If you make incompatible API changes, you should increment the MAJOR version.
-   If you add new features in a backwards-compatible manner, you should increment the MINOR version.
-   If you make backwards-compatible bug fixes, you should increment the PATCH version.

When specifying dependencies in your `package.json` file, you can use semver ranges to specify which versions of a package you want to use. For example:

-   `"dependencies": { "lodash": "^4.17.15" }` means that you want to use version 4.17.15 or higher of the `lodash` package, but less than version 5.
-   `"dependencies": { "express": ">=4.16.0 <5.0.0" }` means that you want to use any version of the `express` package that is greater than or equal to version 4.16.0, but less than version 5.
- In 0.2.3`Note` that 0 is ignored and 2 will considred to be the MAJOR version
- `~` to selecte only the path versions

## package-lock

The `package-lock.json` file is an automatically generated file that is created by the Node.js package manager (`npm`) or the Yarn package manager (`yarn`) when you install or update packages for your project. It is used to lock down the specific versions of packages and their dependencies that are installed in your project, ensuring that all users of your project install the exact same versions of the packages.

The `package-lock.json` file includes detailed information about each package and its dependencies, including the specific version numbers, download URLs, and checksums of the installed packages. This information is used by `npm` or `yarn` to ensure that the same packages and dependencies are installed consistently across different environments and machines.
## Npm audit

`npm audit` is a command that checks your Node.js project for known security vulnerabilities and other issues in your dependencies. It scans your `package.json` file and analyzes the installed packages and their dependencies to determine if any of them have known vulnerabilities or other issues.

You can also use the `--fix` option to automatically fix some of the issues that are reported by `npm audit`. However, be aware that the fixes may introduce breaking changes or other issues, so it is important to review the changes carefully before committing them to your project.

## nodemon

`nodemon` is a command-line utility for Node.js that automatically restarts your Node.js application whenever a change is detected in the source code. It is useful for developing and testing Node.js applications, as it allows you to make changes to the code and see the results immediately without having to manually restart the application each time.

```
npm install -g nodemon
```

```
nodemon app.js
```